docs/components/nova/modules/openscap.rst, before:

openscap
========

:maintainer: HubbleStack / cedwards

Another major component of the Nova auditing system is the on-demand CVE
scanning and reporting. This component automates the ingestion of security
advisory announcements, along with parsing, scanning and reporting. This
feature was inspired by FreeBSD's VuXML integration with `pkg audit`.

To run an on-demand CVE scan, ensure that the `oscap` execution module is
synced to your systems along with a security advisory XML feed. (Current
support for this is limited to RHEL).

Red Hat publishes security advisories in the form of an XML file. These files
follow a specific standard, which requires an additional dependency to use:
openscap-scanner (http://open-scap.org).

The XML files can be found here: https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/.

Simply install the required package, place the XML in your state tree and you
should then be able to scan your system for vulnerabilities.

.. code-block:: shell

    [root@ip-172-31-36-98 ~]# salt \* oscap.scan salt://com-redhat-rhsa-RHEL7.xml
        rhel-7-aws-4:
            ----------
            Total:
                23
            Vulnerabilities:
                - RHSA-20160685 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0685.html
                - RHSA-20160534 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0534.html
                - RHSA-20160532 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0532.html
                - RHSA-20160465 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0465.html
                - RHSA-20160459 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0459.html
                - RHSA-20160428 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0428.html
                - RHSA-20160370 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0370.html
                - RHSA-20160301 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0301.html
                - RHSA-20160189 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0189.html
                - RHSA-20160185 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0185.html
                - RHSA-20160176 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0176.html
                - RHSA-20160073 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0073.html
                ...[snip]...

In the future we plan to expand this report to include enough data to populate
end-user dashboards for reporting, etc.

To include a CVE scan in your Nova top file, simply add the name of the XML
feed into a new Nova profile, like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    cve_scan: salt://com-redhat-rhsa-RHEL7.xml

.. note::

    tl;dr - dash-delimited filenames only

    You may be tempted to name the Nova profile the same name as the XML file.
    Remember, a '.' is a directory-separator in Hubble, meaning you'd actually
    be pointing to a file salt://com/redhat/rhsa-RHEL7/xml.

Commit message:

added headers to nova modules

docs/components/nova/modules/openscap.rst, after:

openscap
========

==========  ======================
maintainer  HubbleStack / cedwards
maturity    2016.7.0
platform    All
requires    SaltStack_, :doc:`HubbleStack Nova<../../../nova/README>`, openscap_
source      https://github.com/HubbleStack/Nova/blob/develop/hubblestack_nova/modules/netstat.py
==========  ======================

.. _SaltStack: https://saltstack.com
.. _openscap: https://www.open-scap.org/

Another major component of the Nova auditing system is the on-demand CVE
scanning and reporting. This component automates the ingestion of security
advisory announcements, along with parsing, scanning and reporting. This
feature was inspired by FreeBSD's VuXML integration with ``pkg audit``.

To run an on-demand CVE scan, ensure that the ``oscap`` execution module is
synced to your systems along with a security advisory XML feed. (Current
support for this is limited to RHEL).

Red Hat publishes security advisories in the form of an XML file. These files
follow a specific standard, which requires an additional dependency to use:
openscap-scanner (http://open-scap.org).

The XML files can be found here: https://www.redhat.com/security/data/oval/.

Simply install the required package, place the XML in your state tree and you
should then be able to scan your system for vulnerabilities.

.. code-block:: shell

    [root@ip-172-31-36-98 ~]# salt \* oscap.scan salt://com-redhat-rhsa-RHEL7.xml
        rhel-7-aws-4:
            ----------
            Total:
                23
            Vulnerabilities:
                - RHSA-20160685 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0685.html
                - RHSA-20160534 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0534.html
                - RHSA-20160532 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0532.html
                - RHSA-20160465 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0465.html
                - RHSA-20160459 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0459.html
                - RHSA-20160428 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0428.html
                - RHSA-20160370 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0370.html
                - RHSA-20160301 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0301.html
                - RHSA-20160189 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0189.html
                - RHSA-20160185 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0185.html
                - RHSA-20160176 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0176.html
                - RHSA-20160073 : https://rhn.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2016-0073.html
                ...[snip]...

In the future we plan to expand this report to include enough data to populate
end-user dashboards for reporting, etc.

To include a CVE scan in your Nova top file, simply add the name of the XML
feed into a new Nova profile, like this:

.. code-block:: yaml

    cve_scan: salt://com-redhat-rhsa-RHEL7.xml

.. note::

    tl;dr - dash-delimited filenames only

    You may be tempted to name the Nova profile the same name as the XML file.
    Remember, a '.' is a directory-separator in Hubble, meaning you'd actually
    be pointing to a file salt://com/redhat/rhsa-RHEL7/xml.
